---
layout:            post
title:             Metrics to Evaluate Analytics Tools
author:            praveen
resource:          true
categories:        [tech_n_gizmos, tech, data_analytics]
tags:              [bigdatatools, analytics_tools, metrics, evaluation]
---

## Criteria to Evaluate Big Data Analytics tools:
=================================================

- **Data criteria**
    + Data types
    + Data sources
    + Data velocity
    + Data set preparation tools
{{ more }}
- **Discovery criteria**
    + Algorithms supported
        + Structured
        + Unstructured
        + Network
    + Data discovery reporting/visualization tools
    + Automated discovery
    + Algorithm extensibility
    + Life-cycle management tools
- **Evaluation & optimization criteria**
    + Model evaluation
    + Model optimization
    + Override rules
    + Continuous optimization
- **Deployment criteria**
    + Execution
    + Input data
    + Output data
- **Security**
    + Data security
    + Model security
    + User security
- **Workload optimization**
    + Performance features
    + Scalability features
- **Standards, integration, solutions, and extensibility criteria**
    + Predictive Model Markup Language support
    + Platform integrations
    + Targeted solutions
    + User interface extensibility
- **Licensing and pricing**
    + Licensing
    + Pricing (average and entry)
    + Maintenance fees
    + Support options


### Appendix
======================================

*Source:[DaveBeulke](http://davebeulke.com/big-data-ten-criteria-for-evaluating-analytics-reporting-tools-part-1/)*

- **Data Set Size Restrictions**
    + What are the tool's size limitations (amount of data)
    + What are the average sizes of the analytic result sets that are expected to be displayed
- **Handles multiple Big Data sources at once**
    + Can the reporting tool handle multiple sources of information
    + Can it bring those disparate sets of data together for evaluation, comparison, reporting
- **Multiple platforms access and support**
    + Connection, setup, access, config should be simple
- **Security is standard**
    + Data Encryption for sensitive data, data encryption while transferring
    + Support for SSO, user level access in shared environment
- **Accessibility to new and old platforms**
    + Does it support Big Data platforms and legacy platforms
- **Diverse report types and formats supported**
    + The various report types need to be save-able in any format desired (HTML, HTML5, PDF, XML, CSV, RTF, Word, XSL, or International formats)

*Source:[Evaluating Big Data Predictive Analytics Platforms - Mike Gualtieri]*

- Managing & integrating data from different sources
- Managing velocity of the data
- Ability to Performing real analytics
- Dealing with data protection and privacy
- Ability to make analytical insights at the point of customer interaction

*Source:[Danwoods](http://www.forbes.com/sites/danwoods/2011/10/21/big-data-technology-evaluation-checklist/)*

- Does the solution allow for stream processing, and incremental calculation of statistics?
- Does the solution parallelize processing and take advantage of distributed computing?
- Does the solution perform summary indexing to accelerate queries of huge datasets?
- What are the solution's data exploration and evaluation environments that enable a quick understanding of the value of new datasets?
- How does a solution directly provide or easily integrate with visualization tools?
- What is the strategy for verticalization of the technology?
- What is the ecosystem strategy? How does the solution provider fill the gaps in its capabilities through partnerships?

*Source:[Vertica](http://www.vertica.com/2013/01/14/top-4-considerations-when-evaluating-a-data-analytics-platform/)*

- **Architecture**
    + Column store architecture
    + Shared nothing parallelism
    + Cluster size and elasticity
    + Hybrid storage model
    + Multiple database isolation modes
    + Both bulk load and trickle feed
- **Performance**
    + Extensive data compression and data encoding
    + Read-optimized storage
    + Highly parallel operation
    + Storage of multiple projections
    + Automatic physical database design
- **General Useful and Noteworthy Features for Large-Scale Use**
    + Export-import
    + Backup/restore
    + Workload analyzer
    + Workload management
    + Role-based security
- **Extensions for Advanced Analytics**
    + SQL extensions
    + Built-in functions
    + User-defined extensions
    + Flexibility in accessing and analyzing all data (structured, semistructured, or unstructured)

*Source:[Avinash](http://www.kaushik.net/avinash/web-analytics-tool-selection-10-questions-to-ask-vendors/)*

- Main differences with free tools.
- Types of versions and flexibility.
- Types of data collection options and entrenchment.
- TCO (Total Cost of Ownership).
- Type of Support (options, pricing, technical or business).
- Segmentation awesomeness (post data capture).
- Exporting data (options, history, data ownership).
- Integration with other sources of data.
- What's up next, the competitive edge.
- Types of business lost, why.
- Bonus Question.

